# Your first form. Compendium

## Overview

Web forms are a points of interaction of a user with the page. Forms allow to insert data and send it to the backend. A form is made up of *form controls* or *widgets* like: dropdown boxes, buttons, input text fields, etc.

## Implementing

```HTML
<form action="/my-handling-form-page" method="post">
    <p>
        <label for="name">Name:</label>
        <input type="text" id="name" name="user_name" />
    </p>
    <p>
        <label for="email">Email:</label>
        <input type="email" id="email" name="user_email" />
    </p>
    <p>
        <label for="message">Message:</label>
        <textarea id="message" name="user_message"></textarea>
    </p>
    <p class="button">
        <button type="submit">Submit</button>
    </p>
</form>
```

All forms start with form element. All attributes are optional but it's best practice to set *action* and *method*.

*action* defines where the URL where the form data should be sent when submitted.

*method* defines the HTTP method to send the data with.

For usability each input form has its label. *for* attribute takes the *id* of the element for which the label needs to be applied. This allows the user to click on the label and access the input form.

`<input>` element's most important attribute is *type* which defines how the form appears and behaves. The default value is defined via `value` attribute.

`<textarea>` default value is defined between the tags.

`<button>` *type* attribute values: 
    
* submit (default) - sends the data to the URL specified in the `<form>` *action* attribute.
* reset - resets all form widgets to default values.
* button - does nothing, used to redefine functionality with JS.

## Sending form data to the server

For each widget the *name* attribute is provided. This way each piece of data gets a corresponding name. The result will be sent as key: value pairs.